[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Today, the
world is in crisis.
We have an amazing amount
of chronic disease happening
in the planet.
And one of the most potent
widespread pandemics
that we're facing is diabetes.
There's 246 million people
today who suffer from diabetes.
It's a major pandemic
situation that we
have to pay attention to.
>> We are one of the sickest
countries in the world.
It don't have to be that way.
Type 2 diabetes has tripled
in the last 10 years.
That's a lifestyle disease.
That's all about what you're
putting into your mouth.
>> We have an unbelievable
epidemic of diabetes in this
country.
And the rates of diabetes
are skyrocketing.
And it parallels the
epidemic of obesity.
We have the most
overweight population ever
in the history of the human
race and still growing fatter.
>> I believe that the definition
of insanity is doing the same
things over and over and over
and expecting a different
result. We have to do
something completely different
and innovative.
>> This is the ghetto.
This is it.
This is Pimlico.
This is where I used to live
when I was a kid actually.
I used to actually live in
the other building down there,
but this is where
my sister lives.
So hopefully, she's in.
This is my sister Nicole.
>> How you doing?
>> I'm always checking on here
to make sure she's all right.
She's frying nuggets.
That's a lot of grease.
Good lord.
>> Be quiet.
>> I guess the most interesting
thing that happened to me
in the last year is being
diagnosed with diabetes.
I've been having to
go to bathroom a lot,
but I didn't know why.
So I went to the emergency room.
And they checked my blood sugar.
They told me that my
blood sugar was at 1,200.
Now, the normal range for
blood sugar is about 80 to 100.
So I was far beyond that range.
When I went in, the doctor
said you should be dead.
It wasn't you had a
possibly of dying.
At 1,200, you should
have something wrong.
Where my pills at?
I have one aside
for when I'm ready--
>> Exactly.
>> --ready to get eating.
Oh, I need to get
a refill tomorrow.
I've always dreamed
of living to 102.
You know?
That's one of my goals.
So to hear that
already so young you've
been diagnosed
with something that
has a major impact on your
health, it took me for a loop
and just made me think
that there is so much
more that I have to do.
And I shouldn't be thinking that
I have a lot of time to do it.
So my main thing is just
getting back healthy
and making sure
that I stay healthy.
So whatever it takes
to get that done,
I'm willing to make
that sacrifice.
>> When I was growing up, the
Italian people were always
mangia, mangia,
mangia, eat, eat, eat.
Because whenever they shared
food with their family,
it was a very, very
precious thing.
The greatest gift
they could give
is food to their family
and their friends.
Well, one thing that's going
to be advantage and another one
is a disadvantage, my
wife is such a good cook.
She cooks just like
the old country.
And oh my god, Betty
Jean, you outdid yourself.
The lamb is to die for.
>> Oh, good.
>> About 10 years ago, I
went to my cardiologist.
I was having a little
hypertensive problems.
He goes, eh, you're
borderline diabetes.
And I heard the word diabetes,
no idea how devastating
this is to life.
The consequences, my god, it
affects every organ system,
and just your vision, your
kidneys, sexual dysfunction.
The other things are the
neuropathy in the feet.
And my feet slowly became numb.
One day, I got cold and chilled.
So I grabbed the ceramic heater.
40 minutes later, I
smell steak cooking.
I try to follow the smell.
I look down at my foot.
It was boiling and bubbling
and cooking, literally cooking.
I cooked my foot.
I just, I've been a big eater
and no controls on that.
And so the eating
just pacifies me.
Just it's a wonderful
pacification thing.
>> My grandmother raised me.
My diet was whatever
I wanted. you know
And it always
entailed of dessert
because that was my reward.
Oh my gosh, my
favorite are gyros.
I love gyros.
Come to me, baby.
I like to eat.
I like to satisfy
whatever I feel.
I didn't really have
anyone to push me that much
in the right direction.
I have just so much
that I want to do,
but I'm being held
back by, first,
my diabetes and my health.
I'm not going to lie.
I don't get this stuff.
So I have a husband.
His name is Ernest.
My son Manny, he's 10.
The members of my family are
loving and strong and funny.
Well, diabetes affects
me in a lot of ways.
Physically, I'm not
happy where I am.
I just want to get rid of it.
>> Dear Heavenly Father, bless
this food which we are about
to receive.
And we thank you for this day.
And we love you.
And we say this in the
name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.
The only thing I want is
to watch my grandkids.
I'd like to see them get big.
And the way I'm going, if I
don't do something about it,
I'm not going to be
around to see them.
And grampa flips that.
Then he puts his finger
up there like that.
[SNAP] And that hurt.
And then I squeeze it--
>> Oooh.
>> --so the blood comes out.
And then I put it on here.
And then the numbers
come up there.
464.
That is bad.
Like my doctor told me, my
diabetes is out of line.
He says you're going to die.
You're killing yourself.
He tell me what I had to
do, but I didn't do it.
I take nine other pills
besides my insulin.
>> Now, I try to watch
what we eat for him.
Because I buried
one, I don't want
to bury another one right away.
>> Of all the things
that you take, man,
orange juice puts it up there.
>> Then why do you drink it?
>> Oh, I love it.
Nobody likes to be defeated,
especially in their own body.
>> My father was a diabetic.
My brother is also a diabetic.
Oh, and I have a
sister that's diabetic.
The way we ate may
have contributed.
OK.
Now, push it in Alex, please.
Thank you, dear.
You have to be careful because
grandma will stick you.
>> I just want to get the paper.
>> I live in the house with
my disabled husband Willie
Mitchell, my daughter,
and four grandchildren.
It's pretty hectic at times.
I've never really taken
time for myself to people
focusing on me?
No.
I've never had that.
>> I'm pretty much
an All-American boy.
You know, grew up with
dirt on my knees and grass
stains on my face.
You know?
That's just how I grew up.
I was the brat of the family
because I'd always be fighting.
And they didn't
realize till years
later that it was my diabetes.
I hated it, you know?
I resented God for it.
I think I still might sometimes.
That's why I rebel.
[BEEP]
>> 27!
Ah-- That's crazy.
>> So I'm trying to quit
drinking altogether.
Wondering if I'm ever
going to actually
be able to stop using
alcohol forever.
You know what I mean?
Because that's the hardest
battle I ever fought.
I'll probably live to like 50.
That's what I think,
but I might not.
You know?
I could heal and
might live longer,
or I might die tomorrow.
I don't know.
>> I really wanted
to get off insulin.
I hated taking it-- you know,
stick yourself in the stomach.
And it was just too much.
So one day, I'm surfing online.
And I go across Craigslist.
And I find that there's an
advertisement for a Raw for 30
days and reversing diabetes.
So I figured this had to be it.
I was really, really
open, because, you know,
my whole thing was I'm not
used to being on insulin.
I don't want to be on insulin.
And I was willing
to try something
to get me off insulin.
But I had no idea
what raw food was.
Only nuts, seeds,
and vegetables?
So that was a little
bit of a challenge,
but I was really open to it.
And they said, OK, fine.
We're going to bring
you out to Arizona to do
the raw challenge and so forth.
And it turned out
to be six of us.
>> If this will cure me in a
month of diabetes, oh, lord,
I would love to tell
the world about that.
Absolutely.
>> You know, when
you love someone,
you don't want them to be
separated from you for 30 days.
But other than that,
she's taking a big step.
And this is going
to be the beginning
of something great for her.
So yes, I definitely
am proud of her.
>> You know, if this
program works for me, hey,
I don't care whether Joe Blow
can't handle it, you know?
What he might not be able to.
Maybe I can.
Maybe I can't.
Maybe somebody else can
come along and handle it
better than I can.
You know, that's just
one of those things
that we're going to
have to find out.
>> I want to see how my body
is going to react to the change
and to see if it's really going
to help to control my diabetes.
But that takes work.
And I got to make up my mind if
I really want to work for it.
>> I'm glad I get
to go to Arizona.
I've never been to Arizona,
so I'm looking forward to it.
I hope I can, you know, help my
diabetes out a little better.
I hope it'll further my life a
little bit in the next month,
you know?
And I hope I help the
people that I'm around too.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Oh, there's the
Tree of Life, OK.
>> And here's Keith's truck.
>> And what kind of
a tree you call that?
Who do we have here?
>> Keith.
>> The host.
OK.
>> I am a host.
>> Sir, it's got to see you.
I've been hearing
lots of cool things.
>> Turn on the light.
Said let there be
light, no light.
>> A-ha, look at this.
>> Oh, there's the lights.
>> What happens.
This is a bathroom.
This is a rugged, man.
Oh, gee.
>> OK.
This is going to be very
cozy, to say the least.
>> Welcome to my world.
I feel like I'm at camp,
like when I was little.
I got real homesick already.
But I'm going to tough it out.
>> What's up, man?
>> How's it going?
>> I'm a juvenile
diabetic, type 1.
I don't have type 2 diabetes.
I've had diabetes--
>> So you had diabetes
since you were a kid?
>> Yeah.
>> How was that?
>> It sucked.
I don't even remember
not having it.
When I was 11,
like I almost died.
I lost 25% of my body weight.
And when you're a little
11-year-old, you weight
like 75 pounds, you know?
>> So I had to go
to the hospital.
And they'd start making
me take shots every day.
So my childhood was ruined.
No.
You get used to it, you know.
As a little kid, it's
just the way life is.
So whatever.
I'm a defective human being.
And I love it.
Won't have it any other way.
>> Just keep it simple,
will I be all right?
>> Yeah.
>> That's just the hard
part, keeping it simple.
>> Yeah.
>> Sometimes the Snickers
look really good.
I'd love to not
have take a shot.
I hate sticking
myself with this.
I hate needles in
the first place.
So like, I've always
tried to watch what I ate.
You know?
I count carbs.
I count calories
and stuff like that.
And I still can't go with it.
So it's like, hey, you got
to make something different.
You got to try
something different.
>> In this month, you'll see
an incredible transformation
of the people moving from
eating junk food, pesticided,
herbicided food, high animal
fat, low fiber, high sugar,
and moving towards raw, organic.
And put him on a no sugar diet.
>> Gabriel Cousens
is a holistic M.D.
as well as a conventional MD.
Coming from a
scientific background,
he brings validity
to the subject that's
never been brought before.
>> My name is Dr. Cousens.
I've been working in holistic
medicine for 35 years.
And for me, healing diabetes
is actually quite easy.
This is not a new thing.
With the approach
we use, I want you
to know that literally
hundreds of people
have been healed by type 2.
I'm going to share with
you in a little bit
three cases of type 1
that have also healed.
I saw that what I learned
at Columbia Medical School,
which a great medical
school, was symptom focus.
And even though I was really
expert in pharmacology,
from my biochemistry
background, I saw, wait,
there's something
not right here.
How do we go to a
deeper level of healing?
That took me into training
people and educating people.
And ultimately, creating the
Tree of Life Rejuvenation
Center where we can create an
all-encompassing environment
that people could really get
a taste of what it's like
to really be healthy.
One other thing you're going
to learn about live food
is that's the diet
that works the best.
You know, what's the reason?
Because when you cook the food,
you lose 50% of the protein,
70% to 80% of the vitamins and
minerals, and close to 100%
of the phytonutrients.
I'm going to ask everyone to
cut your insulin intake by 1/3.
That's our first focus.
So we have to try real hard.
And you have to be aware that's
going to move a little fast.
Our biggest concern,
quite frankly,
is people getting the shock from
getting of insulin so quickly.
We specifically
selected people here
who aren't familiar
with this way of life
so that we can show
everyone can do this.
So you play an incredibly
important role,
not just for yourself.
It's all those other people
you're going to inspire.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, welcome, everybody.
Is this your first meal
besides the soup last night?
Yeah?
Today, we have some
classic burgers.
And most of the time
our burgers are made
with some sort of nut base.
This one happens to be walnuts,
pumpkin seed, sunflower seeds.
And then we usually
throw in some vegetables.
This one has olives
and tomatoes.
>> 100% raw food diet consist
of fruits, vegetables, nuts,
seeds, avocados, and you
can eat some sprouts.
It's food that's unfried.
You know, it hasn't been
processed in any way.
>> Doctors, today, they tend
to be more coming in after
there's already a problem.
They don't tend
to be preemptive.
But probably, a lot of
them aren't even aware
that one of the big
maxims from Hippocrates,
father of modern
medicine, was let
food be thy medicine,
medicine thy food.
>> Here goes nothing.
>> It's a veggie burger.
>> I think it's
beyond veggie burger.
It's a nut burger.
>> A what?
>> Nut burger.
>> Nut burger, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know.
It's all right.
It's just different.
You'd get used to it.
If you grew up eating
it, you could like it.
>> [INAUDIBLE] like it.
>> I wonder how our stomachs
are going to react to this first
meal?
>> Mine already reacted.
>> Looks like coconut.
>> It's a chocolate
coconut torte.
>> Yeah.
>> I could do this.
This is delicious.
>> Salute, guys.
This is all part of
an Italian toast.
To your health,
all of your health.
>> We have become
so drug oriented.
You know, we live
in a world where
we've become kind of
so pharmaceuticalized
that the idea of changing
anything just through diet
is kind of preposterous, I
think, to a lot of people.
That's almost like old
medicine, like a witch doctor.
>> Everything looks symmetrical.
Say ah.
>> Ahh.
>> Good.
>> Your oxygen saturation
is 92%, which is really low.
These are white blood cells.
>> OK.
>> These are read blood cells.
See that?
How like they're
wormy like that?
>> Yeah.
>> They're fed by sugar.
Actos 30mg.
>> Sugar.
>> OK.
You're going to stop that.
>> Metformin.
>> Going to stop that too.
On Meglitinide?
>> Yeah.
>> We're going to stop that.
>> Today, you know, the
philosophy of most people is
better living through
chemistry, which, you know,
is a modern opportunity.
But it also has its price.
So now you see that
the drug that's
being using for type 2 diabetes
for so long, that now it's
under fire.
They're going to put
the black box on it that
says may cause heart failure.
So my view is start
with a natural approach.
Maybe you have to
go to chemistry,
but why not exhaust that
possibility so you don't end up
having all these
side effects that you
find that five years, 10
years later, 20 years later
when maybe it's too late.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I would expect that as
we're unfolding that probably
by the end of the week, most
people will be off insulin.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 117.
>> All right.
That's pretty good.
>> You did good.
>> All right.
Thank you.
>> My sugar went down 100!
>> Woo!
And it's all because
of Mr. Green.
>> Yeah.
No insulin.
Think of no insulin and
your sugar going down.
>> I know it.
>> Oh my goodness.
>> Out in the fresh air.
>> Is there somebody that would
pinch me and make me believe
it?
>> That'll do.
It seems like I am normalizing.
Hallelujah.
That's the lowest it's
been in quite a while.
Amazing.
Yeah, OK.
>> All these chairs are
just a little bit too high
for my short body.
>> Are they?
OK.
107.
>> I don't care for the
food at all, you know?
But hey, it's working.
Can't complain.
[BEEP]
>> Perfect.
If I could have that
for the rest of my life,
would be peaches.
>> You did good.
>> And my sugar has been the
highest of everyone here,
but I know it's
going to go down.
>> Yeah, it is.
It's just going to take a little
bit for your body to stabilize
and get used to this.
>> Do you not want to see?
>> Look how high it is.
It went up higher.
>> 162.
It's OK.
Just be patient with it.
You're off your medication.
And your body's still
getting acclimated to what
we're doing here.
So just write it down on
your sheet and show it--
>> I'm going under a rock now.
>> It'll get better.
It'll get better.
>> OK.
So that's a 60-point drop, and
you cut your insulin by a 1/3?
>> A 1/3.
>> OK.
>> I didn't take it last night.
>> Great.
>> Wow.
>> So that's even better.
>> Michelle, what was
your blood sugar today?
>> 400.
>> Whoa.
>> Be patient, Michelle,
it'll come down, sweetie.
It'll take it's time.
Everybody drops at different
rates everybody's different.
Everybody's a little different.
I mean, everybody
is moving very fast.
You know?
When you're talking about
something that the "New York
Times" says is incurable,
everybody here is off insulin.
You know, I mean, you've
cut your insulin in half
as a type 1, it's not so bad.
So we have to hold perspective.
Give it a little time.
>> Detox is very
difficult for people.
When you begin to
shift your way of life,
all of those old patterns
and all of the chemicals
that are in the cells themselves
that begin to be released,
a person has to be very
strong, very courageous,
and have strong intention to
move through that process.
>> I don't know
what's wrong with me,
but I feel really strange.
And I can walk all the time.
My legs I feel like
I'm going all over.
I don't know what the
hell is wrong with me.
I feel weak.
I could walk this
any other time.
And I feel like my body
is going another way.
It's boring in the house.
I'm bored to death.
I just want this
30 days to be over.
But for me, my physiology,
I need something to eat.
And I just feel so inferior
to the people at the house
because they're just doing it.
I'm the only one that's
like having a hard time.
This isn't usually
my personality.
I'm not this down.
But I feel crappy.
I just totally made up my mind
today that I'm going to leave.
It's not because of
my health issues.
It's not because of anyone.
I just want to go home.
I can't be away from
my family that long.
I'm really sorry that I
disappointed everyone.
But I have to do
this for myself.
>> Is Michelle
going home for sure?
>> I think she's really,
really missing her family.
And so far, she hasn't really
seen that much progress.
>> It's hard to tell her
that it's only a month.
It's not that big a deal.
Like why go to all the
hassle when we're almost done
with the first week already.
>> I know it must be hard, but
you can only imagine how much
your family would miss
you if you get sick
because of diabetes and,
you know, pass away.
>> Yeah.
The thing is, it's so
much healthier for her.
You know what I mean?
Like for all of us, like
it's going to be so much
better for her in the long run.
Why can't she see that?
>> It takes time, you know?
Five days is, that's
not enough time
to give it a chance to work.
>> No.
>> I have a feeling that
I want to leave too.
>> Why would you
want to leave though?
>> My spirit tells me--
>> You know, we subconsciously
can deceive ourselves too with
fears and emotions that
we don't understand.
How do you differentiate
between the spirit and--
>> Your inner self.
Your inner self [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, I know, but
that's intuition.
That's kind of like intuition.
>> >> Has nothing to
do with intuition.
>> I don't understand how you
differentiate that between--
>> That's it.
You do not understand.
You're Catholic.
>> Well, I mean, I'm
still a human being.
>> Well, you have your beliefs.
And I have mine.
That's the individual thing.
>> OK.
>> I know this is
going to work for you.
You know?
This is really important.
I know this has
probably been a blessing
that you've been asking for.
And you know sometimes
things happen, and it just
seems like a scaling back, but
we're going to move forward.
>> I know.
>> As much as you
believe in God.
As much as you sang in church.
And I know you've
prayed for this.
>> I know.
>> This is why you're here.
This is why we're all here.
All of us want this change.
>> You want this thing so bad
you're forgetting what you came
here for, not just for you,
but for your children, right?
>> Actually, yeah, yeah, yeah--
>> You're darn right.
>> --cause I did tell my son, I
said, he didn't want me to go.
He cried uncontrollably,
inconsolably.
And I'm holding him, and
I'm looking at myself
in the mirror.
And I'm saying, but baby, you
want a new mommy, don't you?
So yeah, I did.
I did.
You know?
>> And it just kills
us to see you leave.
>> I know.
>> Especially when we
know you're so capable.
>> I know, but I already
made the decision.
>> Oh, you can't do that.
>> I already made up my mind.
>> Do you know what
a blessing this is?
>> I know.
>> How can you do that?
Don't you want to
get through this
and be the person
you want to be?
I thank the Lord every
day for being here.
I thank you, dear Lord, to
give me the opportunity.
I couldn't have
done this by myself.
>> I didn't know
that this was a way.
I didn't even know.
This wasn't an option
from the doctors.
I didn't know.
>> Michelle, how many people
could touch with this knowledge
here?
And you actually lived
to heal the diabetes.
Can you see the
opportunity you have?
>> I just really feel like,
we want to see you at the end
of the 30 days with that smile
that you came in here with,
with that fire burning.
>> Thank you.
>> And I know you can do it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, everybody.
>> How are you?
>> Good.
How you doing?
Good?
>> Do you have an announcement
you wanted to read?
>> Yes, I wanted to let
everyone know that I'm staying.
[CHEERS]
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Our hearts go
out to you, my dear.
We're so excited for you.
That's wonderful.
>> Yes.
Yes.
>> It's really good
that this came up
because it's the struggle.
You know it's you and
another 21 million people
go through the struggle.
It isn't so easy,
but give it time.
Things are going
to go up and down,
and hopefully, you'll
see a more steadiness.
And for some of you, you've
already hit the steadiness
and some of you haven't.
Remember, each of you are like
a miracle reversing the process,
but it takes a little time.
Who would think that in a week,
you know, some many of you
would be doing so well?
[RINGTONE]
>> Hello?
>> Hi, baby.
>> Hey, honey, how are you?
>> I'm good.
Well, I have some good news.
I decided I'm going to run on
for the next three weeks here.
>> Ah, ah.
>> It just came to me at 1
o'clock in the morning that
if I leave, I won't
see the results.
>> The results.
>> And I see such
great results already.
Earnest, I don't
know if you remember,
but on my left breast-- you
do remember the breast, right?
>> Oh, yeah.
How could I--
>> OK, honey, honey, baby.
That on my left breast I had
a bump for 15 years, honey.
The bump is gone.
>> Oh, wow!
>> And it's all smooth.
My whole-- everything
is just changing.
The doctor was saying
it's like 22 million
or probably more that have it.
And all they're doing is being
bandaged with the medicine.
It's not a cure.
This food that
I'm eating, honey,
is like healing me from inside.
And I can beat diabetes, honey.
>> Ahh.
>> I love you so, so much.
>> I love you, honey.
You're going to be so fine.
Honey, you have my support 100%.
Just know that I'm with you, OK?
>> OK, baby.
>> All right.
Have a good day.
>> All right, honey.
>> All right.
>> Bye bye.
>> Bye.
>> Shoot, if I had my sneakers,
I'd walk up that hill right now
as good as I feel.
Wow, I feel amazing,
like, wow, just,
like I could conquer the world.
Matter of fact, I am
conquering the world.
I am.
Wow.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was taking 17 different
pills a day plus my insulin.
I'm off of them.
I'm not on any of those.
>> Dear mommy, we miss you.
It's hard for me to
live without you.
If you are homesick,
please come back.
We all miss you.
We can't see or visit
you, and that's dumb.
Me and Ernest are
fine, but we miss you.
I love you.
>> That is so nice.
>> My gosh.
>> I feel great about the diet
itself and what it has been
able to do for me.
And seeing all my co-subjects
how it has just been
miraculous for them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And I love salads and greens
and tomatoes and cucumbers,
avocados.
If I had my druthers,
I would love
to come here and become
a part of this lifestyle
and bring my family with me.
And get a little trailer.
Buy a little piece of land.
Get a trailer.
And pop right there.
I've been the man with the
lantern looking for the truth,
and my god, we found it.
>> Lunch wasn't good.
I thought cause it was
tacos it might be good,
but it was disgusting.
The food starts to wear
on me after a while.
Yeah, I can stick it out.
I can stick anything out.
Just don't really want to.
>> Welcome, everybody
to Chocolate Making 101.
The most surprising
thing about the recipe
that we're going to prepare
today is how easy it is.
I can prepare this now--
I've made it enough times--
in about 10 minutes.
So if you've got a
chocolate craving,
you can make raw
chocolate in 10 minutes.
It's pretty incredible.
So the first thing I always do--
and you can see there
on your recipe sheet--
it's all melt down half
a pound of cacao butter
and one pound of coconut
cream concentrate.
So once we melt that
down, we're going
to incorporate the dry
ingredients together.
And we have here half
a cup of carob powder,
one cup of cacao powder,
and one cup of cacao nibs.
Raw cacao has a number of
different neurotransmitter
chemicals that pretty much
go directly to the brain
when you consume it.
One of which is called PEA.
It's the love bliss chemical.
So like people, you
know how they always
say, like, oh, when
I eat chocolate,
it's like I'm in love.
>> Yes.
>> It's exactly like that.
People really are experiencing
the same hormonal signals
in their brain as when they're
in love from eating chocolate.
OK.
So now we're got
our dry ingredients.
We've got our wet ingredients.
And all it takes now is
just mixing them together.
We're just going to
incorporate a little at a time.
So you can just pour a
little bit of powder.
As you're mixing
it, you can start
to see it starts to
what I call seize.
And essentially, what that means
is when you start mixing it,
you'll be able to see the bottom
of the bowl really clearly.
OK.
So at this point, we're
going to add our sweetener.
And this is Yacon syrup
that I'm adding here.
Yacon syrup comes
from a Yacon root.
And it has a very, very
low glycemic index,
as low as some
standard vegetables
that you might find out in
your standard salad bar.
Can you guys smell
this, by the way?
>> Yes.
>> Woo!
That's intoxicating on its own.
>> Chocolate.
Kirk and I can't wait to just--
>> Stick your finger in it.
>> We just want the
almonds on the inside.
>> Oh, yeah, you can
put almond butter.
Make almond butter cups.
>> Or just along with them.
>> Peanut butter cups.
>> Or just cover them.
Hey, you guys ready to try this?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
We'll go around this way.
Now, the texture with this
chocolate and the taste
is going to be a lot
different when it's warm.
>> I like that.
>> Yeah.
>> Taste like that coconut.
Taste the coconut.
>> Dang.
>> But essentially,
that does it.
That's Chocolate Making 101.
So thank you all for coming.
>> Thank you.
>> I can't wait to
eat the rest of it.
>> Bill, you should have
seen his legs this morning.
I mean bad.
>> Does your skin get real dry?
>> Oh, yeah.
So this is what you need.
>> Feel how dry those are?
This feel like elephant skin.
>> Oh, my god.
>> You see what I'm saying?
>> That's horrible.
>> Yeah.
>> That's terrible.
>> I don't want to scare you
or nothing, but my grandmother,
they took her feet
off, both of them.
Yeah, they went up to her knees.
>> Well, that's
what we're here for.
>> And this up here killed her.
>> Yeah, that's what
we're working on.
>> After breakfast 128.
It was one-- was it
110 this morning?
>> My gosh.
>> 128.
>> Cool.
>> After breakfast.
That's awesome.
That is normal.
Oh my god.
>> Let me check mine again, and
see what the hell I'm doing.
>> What?
>> Dropped to 194.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Super.
Cool.
So I'm dropping again.
No insulin.
>> Watch out.
If this keeps up, I'll be
feeling like a man pretty son
instead of a eunuch.
>> My blood sugar is 155.
>> Yeah?
>> From this morning it was 176.
My breathing is better.
My mind is clearer
for some reason.
>> You feel clear?
>> Yeah.
>> Any other time I'd be
thinking about food all
the time.
Sometimes I get those
waves of hunger.
Right now, I'm on a
cracker binge or feen.
I'm really feening for crackers.
>> Can you bring me crackers?
>> Crackers?
>> Yes, crackers.
>> You want some
kind of cracker?
>> Yes!
>> --telling her
about the Cheese Nips.
It doesn't have trans fat.
>> Just tell Michael--
>> I'm telling you about the
Cheese Nips that they have
at the store.
It has partially
hydrogenated whatever crap.
So it's not wholly,
it's partially.
I want a whole pack of crackers.
And I'll eat maybe one a day.
Yeah, right.
I just have the Cheese
Nips in my memory.
They have them new now
with jalapeno stuff in it.
>> The tendency can be to rush
to the fridge or the larder
and binge on goodness
knows what kind of food,
foods we might not even had
eaten for 10 or 20 years.
>> Most people's big
concern, certainly mine,
is with taste buds.
Concerned with making
your taste buds happy.
>> This is a nice
little walk, isn't it?
>> Yes, it is.
>> Tell me my sugar
will be going down.
>> Oh, yeah, your
sugar will be down.
That's what we need.
We need exercise.
Oh, they got a market over here.
>> Uh huh.
Uh huh.
>> Valentine Potluck.
>> Brown sugar, cinnamon.
It says flavor in every bite.
>> They had Cheese Nips
and it said zero sugar.
>> Well, yeah, you're
good with sugar,
but it probably got other fat
in it, like trans fats, though.
>> Oh, gosh, 250 milligrams
of sodium, but no cholesterol.
No trans fat.
No saturated fat.
No sugar.
Zero sugar.
>> I'll get another two.
>> Cottonseed oil.
>> You get two,
and I'll get two.
>> Cornstarch.
All right.
You win.
>> Hydrogenated, partially
hydrogenated vegetable oil.
That's the stuff that gets
you, but it's also good.
>> Corn syrup--
>> I don't know what--
>> --in crackers.
>> So you get 9% for each
one of these slices you eat?
>> Yeah.
No.
It says--
>> One serving is one slice.
>> Oh, OK.
OK.
So I eat one a day.
>> That's how you have to
learn how to read labels.
>> Yes, you can.
>> There's a big difference.
>> I'm run-down.
My body is run-down.
My sinuses-- I didn't
sleep at all last night.
Change of diet, everything's
just boom, boom, boom.
My body's tired.
I'm starting to--
I'm getting ornery.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> No, when I say
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH],,
you say [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH].
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Henry what joke
did you tell me?
That perverted joke
you just told me.
I forgot what it was.
>> I don't know.
I've told so many jokes,
I can't remember them all.
They just come to me.
Jokes just come to me.
I don't try to remember them.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Somebody says something,
and it'll remind me of a joke.
I mean, I don't--
>> That's how I am too.
>> This guy was
in a bar drinking.
All at once this devil
appears in front of him.
Poof!
And that devil looks at him
and goes [DEVILISH LAUGH]..
The guy, drunk, looks at him,
and says you don't scare me.
I've been married to
your sister for 20 years.
>> How you holding up?
>> Pretty good, but I'm
still sick on my stomach.
>> So did you eat any
breakfast this morning?
>> No, I never ate.
I don't think I could hold it.
>> No more of the
chest pain type?
>> No.
Just sick on my stomach--
>> Yeah, I think it's
a GI kind of thing.
>> --doing flip-flops on me.
>> Whenever you
change your life,
there's some kind of detox
that's going to happen.
We have strong coping
mechanisms, defense mechanisms,
compulsive behaviors
that we've developed
to make it through life.
And when you change your life,
all of those are challenged.
>> We have to remember when
you go to an all raw diet that
the average American, part of
the problem is not the diet
itself, whether the
diet's going to work.
The problem is they're starting
from such a toxic state.
That's why when you go
into an all raw diet,
you don't feel good because
your body knows all over sudden
that you stop poisoning it.
>> Your blood pressure
was great, 118 over 72.
It's never been that good.
>> The body has certain
healing qualities.
And in order to
heal itself, it has
to throw out the toxins,
the pesticides, herbicides,
all these blockages,
and old diseases
kind of appear and heal.
>> Well, I'll come back and
check on you and see if we can
figure out some sort of juice or
something maybe that would help
settle your stomach and give
you a little bit of something.
>> Cranberry juice.
I drink a lot of
cranberry juice.
>> Do you?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
>> Thank you.
>> You're welcome.
>> Everybody likes to be
waited on by a pretty lady.
>> All right.
>> So I'll just do it?
>> Yeah, put the little
green button in the middle.
>> Ow!
Your momma.
OK, baby, come on.
Come on, baby.
>> There you go.
That's enough.
See, you were at--
111!
>> Woooo!
>> 111!
>> [LAUGHING]
>> You made a breakthrough!
>> Woooo!
111!
>> 111?
Without insulin?
And you tell me what program
works, what program works.
This works.
That other crap don't work.
And this is still inside
this machine telling me
that it didn't work.
>> That's right.
Eat that diabetes.
Let's have a look again.
>> 111, girl.
Give me a hug.
You understand what
this program is about.
>> I threw up a while ago.
And but I'm still woozy,
dizzy, and sick in my stomach.
>> (ON PHONE) Oh,
you can do it, honey.
>> Wendy.
>> Yeah?
>> I don't know.
>> (ON PHONE) You can do it.
I try.
My mind is not like this.
It just rejects
this food, you know?
>> (ON PHONE) I know you can do
it if you set your mind to it.
>> I don't have the
heart anymore, you know?
>> Well, do you want to go back
to giving yourself shots again?
>> If I have to, that's
what it's going to take.
I already made up my mind, yeah.
I just--
>> (ON PHONE) You
can do it, honey.
I'd love to see you without it.
>> Well, we'll talk
about it later.
>> (ON PHONE) All
right, night, baby.
>> Baby, good night.
>> (ON PHONE) Goodnight, honey.
>> She lost one husband, and she
don't want to lose another one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, Henry's SAP was 97%.
>> OK.
>> His pressure is perfect.
His heart rate is perfect.
His lungs sound great.
>> That's what I used
to tell my girlfriend.
If I'm not perfect, I'm
as close as you can get.
>> Fine specimen.
Is your cousin coming?
>> Yeah.
>> Where was he coming from?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> [INAUDIBLE], where's that?
>> 50 miles on the
side of [INAUDIBLE]..
>> He's coming to visit you?
>> He's coming to get me.
10 years ago, I
could have done it.
I"m getting too old.
[SIGH]
>> Too old for what?
>> Too old to take this crap.
>> What crap?
>> Well, my brain
don't want the food.
It just rejects it,
literally, you know?
I look at it, and I
just want to scream.
>> There's wonderful food here.
Fresh, live, green.
>> I know.
It's OK for some people--
>> Whole foods, organic--
>> --but it's not me, you know?
I mean, how can all
you people be wrong?
You know?
It's got to be me.
It's not always-- you
know, you guys can eat it.
More power to you, but I can't.
I just can't do it, you know?
>> Two more weeks of
your hanging in there,
just by you know, will,
it'll just-- yeah.
>> I can't hack it.
I can't hack another day.
>> OK.
>> Well, whatever you decide.
Good luck.
>> Thank you.
>> You take care, all righty?
It's been a pleasure.
It's been a pleasure
knowing you.
>> I do know that the more you
lay down, like Henry's doing--
I went in and told him, get
up out of this damn bed.
Because it's not doing nothing
but sapping your energy.
It's not giving you any energy.
Get out the bed.
>> The more you start
moving and exercising--
>> Once you start
moving, you will get--
if he don't do nothing but
walk in here, and walk back.
Walk out on the porch.
Sit out there.
Absorb that air, you know?
So he needs to stop
staying in his room.
And everybody needs
to stop pampering him.
>> That's the biggest thing.
In order for this stuff
to work for other people,
they're going to
want-- they're going
to have to want this to work.
>> Work.
>> Have to.
It's not easy.
It's going to take
a lot of work.
But then nothing
good is ever easy.
We enjoy the Taco Bell.
We enjoy the chicken.
We enjoy the fish.
And so much we get
lost in the salad.
>> It's in that enjoy--
>> The salad--
>> --enjoyment.
>> The salad's lost.
>> Yeah.
>> The raw food is lost.
>> Lost.
>> All the time.
And it's just like,
wow, what's lost
is what's actually healing you.
>> Yeah.
>> I have a huge amount of
respect for anyone that gives
raw food a shot.
You know, even if
it's just for a day.
This is such an
experiential journey
that people have to try it.
It's as simple as that.
You can read about it.
You can hear about it.
You can look at the food
and feel wowed by it.
But it's actually getting
that food in your body
that's all the difference.
So for anyone that
takes that step
and is brave enough to say,
yeah, I'll give it a week,
I'll give it 30
days, whatever it is.
The proof of the pudding
is in the eating.
Absolutely.
And when people gave themselves
that gift, that opportunity,
the rewards will come.
Absolutely, they will come.
>> So how's your
blood sugar doing?
>> It's high.
Low, high, whatever.
>> So you're still taking about
25% of the insulin you were
taking?
>> Yeah.
>> So you're feeling
pretty good with that?
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
>> What do you think about
the potential of getting off
insulin for the
rest of your life?
>> Probably 0%
chance that I will.
>> You know--
>> Realistically.
>> --I don't buy that.
>> Well, I-- like, I want to get
off insulin more than anything.
That would be the best thing in
the world to get off insulin.
But every doctor I've ever had
since I've been 10 years old
has told me that I'll take
shots for the rest of my life.
And that there's no hope of
ever getting off insulin.
So just accept the fact that
I'm going to be taking shots
for rest of my life.
>> That's a hard
thing to get by.
>> I know.
>> That's a real hard thing.
That's like 100 doctors
told me that stuff.
>> But what's Dr.
Cousins saying?
>> He said there's three
cases where it's been cured.
I want to kind of read
up on those cases.
>> Yeah.
You got an incredible
chance to beat this thing.
And, um-- everything in
life comes with a price.
And this-- I don't
know, it looks--
I feel like you've had--
it's incredibly lucky
that you're here.
>> I'm trying.
>> I love it.
>> It'd be nice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So you taking off?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah?
That sucks.
>> Yeah.
I gotta go though.
>> And there's my
partner in crime.
Henry's leaving.
>> I cannot last
another two weeks.
>> I understand.
>> I just can't do it.
I want to, but I
can't, you know?
My body says no.
My mind says no.
I've got to do what the
little man inside me tells me.
>> Yeah.
>> If I didn't, I would
be true to myself.
I would be living a lie.
>> Come on, Henry,
hang in there.
We only got two more weeks.
>> Can't do it.
>> Yes, you can.
You can.
>> I can't do it, mamma.
>> Yes, you can.
You just don't want to.
That's what that is.
>> You think so?
>> Yes.
You just don't want to.
>> Yeah.
>> You listening to the
feeling instead of to the--
>> Well I just
listen to the Lord.
And he says, "Henry, sometimes
you just piss me off."
>> Well, maybe you done
something to piss him off right
now.
[INAUDIBLE]
You can do it.
>> I don't know.
>> With me you can do it.
>> I was trying to get Gabriel
to give you some Diet 7UP
because it doesn't have
any sugar or caffeine.
He got mad at me, kind of,
this morning during the class.
He said that I was like you.
He said that I was--
what did he say?
He said I was too
resistant to the cause.
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah, well--
>> Ah yeah.
>> [INDISTINCT CHATTER]
>> Yeah, [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH].
>> Turn 'em off.
>> Yeah.
They're starving me here.
>> How you feeling?
>> Henry, you got everything
out of the bathroom?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
All right?
I wish you the best.
I wish you'd decide to stay.
>> Don't let it
sneak back up on you.
>> I know.
If you get a type of feel
and you change your mind,
turn back.
We still want you, all right?
We want you here.
>> Hey, Mama.
I'm cured.
I'm so lucky.
>> I'll miss you.
>> I miss you already.
I miss your golden voice.
You wonderful Sandra.
Sweetheart.
Take good care them like you do.
>> You know, if you want to
call me in the next day or two,
and you feel like you
need to come back and--
>> Because I'll just
be over the hill.
>> Because I'll just come.
I'll come get you.
So just call me.
>> Thanks for the invite.
I appreciate that.
>> Yeah, Henry, if you change
your mind, he'll go get you,
man.
He'll come right up and get you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is no such thing
as "you're too sick."
See, that's one thing we
have to learn how to go over.
Not what we feel, but
what we want to do.
>> (DAVID THOMAS SINGING
UNMARKED GRAVE) I was a soldier
in a far off land, the
arrow deep in my side.
I'd return one day my love.
To the heavens we would ride.
>> He's been talking too
much about going to Mexico.
>> I say let him go.
He needs to go.
>> I know I have a
different opinion.
I say he can't go unsupervised.
>> I can go if I want.
>> I agree with that.
>> You gotta be kidding me.
>> Yes, I agree.
Because you're foolish.
>> Well, why couldn't I?
Like, I'm 25 years old.
You talking about
the program, right?
>> Sure.
>> Well, I don't care.
Someone can supervise
me and hold my hand.
So that's what you guys
think, I'm going to drink.
I thought you were
worried about the food,
I don't even care about that.
And they don't know
how bad I want to go.
Like, I really want to go, so--
I just figured I will go.
What's wrong with my shoelaces?
You can't get in
trouble for hitchhiking.
I've never got in
trouble for hitch--
I don't hitchhike that much.
But when I need to,
I have, you know?
Like, I don't even
care about eating.
And I'm not going to
drink just because they
don't want-- they really
didn't want me to, you know?
Like, I mean, I wouldn't
have anyway on the diet.
But it seemed like they
really were adamant about it.
So I won't even have
a beer or nothing.
I told you everything
would turn out all right.
It turned out fine.
What'd I say, in,
like, five hours?
Look at that.
Five hours of the day.
Got to go to Mexico.
Great time.
Genuine Mexican tequila
bought from Mexico.
>> What about the booze?
I didn't drink any
booze in Mexico.
You want to kiss
me and find out?
Go buy a breathalyzer.
I don't care.
No, I haven't been drinking.
Why even ask me?
>> What's your
sugar this morning?
>> It was like 84 this morning.
>> OK, no, that's perfec--
>> That's not too low?
>> No, it's not low.
It's perfect.
>> But he went to bed late.
And he was sleeping
on the couch.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Hmm?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> I was on the phone.
I didn't feel like
going back in the room.
>> So 84--
>> Plus Austin was throwing up
all night, and I was like, OK.
>> Why was Austin
throwing up all night?
>> I guess he was trying to
recover from his alcohol.
>> I didn't get all of that.
>> He hitchhiked to Mexico.
>> So he's recuperating then.
Make sure he drinks
plenty of fluids.
>> 206.
Not bad at all.
For what people and
I would have thought.
It's not bad at all.
What are you doing, Keith?
>> Was wondering what this is.
And that.
>> That's mine.
I'll keep them.
>> So you've been
drinking alcohol.
>> No, I drank some yesterday.
Yeah, I didn't drink none today.
I just woke up though.
>> Here's the thing.
Taking alcohol is
something that clearly you
agreed not to do to
be in this program.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
So I just drank a
little bit yesterday.
>> That's the only day?
>> Yeah.
Like, I won't sit there
and drink all the time.
Like, I'm barely ever drinking.
Like, I've been staying
on this diet really good.
I haven't eaten anything
since I've been here.
I haven't eaten one thing.
Besides this food.
I haven't drank any soda.
I haven't drank any juice.
Haven't drank any sugar.
>> I'm really more concerned,
not with the fact that you
drank alcohol, not with the
fact that you have tobacco.
It's like, OK, what will
allow Austin to heal?
You're this handsome,
charismatic young guy,
and you have these
patterns in your behavior
where you're putting
on a show for people.
I bet you've heard this
from your dad, your mom,
your brothers, your friends.
You know?
Am I the first guy
to ever say this?
>> No.
I've been trying to do this
diet as much as I could.
>> I see it.
I have seen--
>> I just went to Mexico
yesterday and just got a--
not even drank that
much, like, seriously.
>> Man, this is--
>> I would have drank
a fifth, like, in--
>> Just 30 days.
>> Huh?
>> This is just 30 days.
>> Yeah, but--
I know.
>> Because Dr. Cousins now,
he can't have a baseline
of saying, hey, this
will help Austin.
In three months, he's
going to be off insulin.
Did you ever believe that
could actually happen?
>> Nope.
>> Yeah.
>> We have strong coping
mechanisms, defense mechanisms,
compulsive behaviors, that we've
developed to make it through
life.
And when you change your life,
all of those are challenged.
You think those
are your friends.
Maybe years ago they
were your friends,
to help you make it through a
particular time in your life.
But now they hinder the process.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Mmm mmm!
>> Tree of Life granola--
>> Granola!
Delicious!
A real cereal!
>> And it's good for you!
>> Yes, it is.
>> Mm!
>> What does it look like?
>> Put it in the show.
>> Just has to relax.
If anything was
wrong, he would have
tried to get a message here.
>> They're here.
[SCREAMING]
>> It was-- it was
beautiful in Tuscon.
Seems like you got shorter.
>> Ah, I just got slimmer.
[LAUGHING]
This is my family, Earnest.
>> How's it going, Earnest?
>> Good how are you?
>> This is Kirt.
>> Hi, I'm fine.
>> Nice meeting you.
>> This is the Italian Bill.
>> Nice meeting you, man.
Hi, a pleasure.
I've heard about
this guy's voice.
>> He speaks Italian.
>> [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> Bravo!
Bravo!
>> Woo!
Wooooo!
Ohhh, my God!
I want to cry--
so bad.
>> I'm here!
>> [LAUGHING] Mmmmmmm [SMOOCH]
[GUITAR MUSIC]
>> We're making nori rolls.
And the vegetables
that we're going
to use this evening
are cucumber,
bell peppers, tomatoes,
which are also here,
avocados, and sprouts.
So now we're going to
lay down some sprouts.
Since these are
vegetables rolls,
so I'm going to add a little bit
more vegetables than I normally
would.
I'm just going to roll
it really carefully.
And it's OK if some of the
stuff kind of falls out.
You can always tuck it in.
Carefully pick up your rolls.
Set them down.
And then you just
garnish around the plate.
This beautiful fan of avocado.
You could put it
like this at the top.
You can garnish it on the plate.
And then you can always
add a few sprouts
in there just for color.
And there you have it.
Simple nori rolls,
vegetable rolls.
[VIOLIN MUSIC]
>> A person that's a diabetic,
exercise is critically
important.
Because the amount of
sugar you're going to spill
is based on the calories
you're burning up
in your daily activity.
>> Think beyond the hands.
If it didn't make it there, just
pick it up and place it there.
Exhaling mountain,
life the hips.
Inhale Cat.
Roll the Cat.
Lift.
Rotate the shoulders out.
Inhale upward swoop
reach the arms,
allow the shoulders to relax.
Exhale as you hinge
forward from the hips.
Let's touch now.
Bend the knees if necessary.
Place the palms on the
ground, relaxing the head.
Then bring the knees
down, the chest down.
Now you know the variation
either using the tide
or waterfall.
Three long, deep breaths.
[RAPID EXHALING]
It's a really good one
to do before you eat.
Five minutes before you eat,
or three hours afterwards.
[ACOUSTIC GUITAR MUSIC]
>> Then we're surrounded by what
I understand to be love grass.
Actually you never felt it.
It's like straw.
>> It almost feel like
artificial flowers.
It really do.
>> They've got to somehow
get people in their family
or circle who are supportive.
Because otherwise it's
really hard, I think.
Really hard.
And just for me to be more
raw than cooked is generally
about the people
around me, you know?
If I don't have someone, at
least one person helping me,
you know--
if you don't have
that, and you're,
like, going home with
maybe one other person,
you know what you're eating--
my God, that's tough.
>> This diet actually
saved my life.
>> Yeah.
>> Because had I not come here,
I probably would have died
really soon.
You know, I probably had
really high blood pressure.
Because, I mean, I'm
just regulating it now.
I probably would have died,
or ended up in the hospital.
[ACOUSTIC GUITAR MUSIC]
>> It's like a really
special show tonight.
>> Yeah, we have four
people that are here doing
a documentary on how to
heal diabetes naturally,
through natural foods.
>> Welcome, to the studio Pam.
>> Good evening.
My name is really
Margaret Beverly Mitchell.
But out here I'm
known as Auntie Pam.
I'm here enjoying the fact that
I have my last shot of insulin
was given to me in
Sarasota, Florida
before getting on the plane.
I have not had one shot of
insulin since I've been here.
And I praise the Lord for that,
because I don't like shots.
>> Good evening, Patagonia.
My name is Kirt Tyson.
I'm from Baltimore, Maryland.
>> My name is Augustine Roland.
I'm from Westland, Michigan.
>> My name is Guglielmo
Fasoli, Bill Fasoli.
I'm from Long Beach, California.
And I'm here experiencing
an absolute miracle.
They said they could
cure my diabetes.
And I says, I got to
see this for myself.
And by God, in four days,
I was off my medication.
I've lost about 25
pounds in two weeks.
And the energy and the
well-being and the clarity
of my--
you can tell I'm really
excited about getting off
the shots and stuff.
>> Definitely.
We'll give you
more to yap about.
>> Thanks, Bill.
That's the end of the show.
[INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]
>> We're just seeing how
this diet can affect a type 1
diabetic.
And it's really been great.
I'm on, like, not
much insulin at all.
I feel great.
And I'm just happier than I
usually am on my old diet.
>> How much less insulin are
you taking, percentage wise?
Tell them.
>> Well, Bill, probably--
[LAUGHTER]
--about a sixth, one sixth of
the insulin that I was taking.
>> Yahoo!
Yahoo, that's incredible.
>> It's great.
The food's good, you know.
The food's getting better.
And a lot of nice people
out here in Patagonia.
>> Most times when you think
of a raw diet or vegan diet,
you expect someone
to be, you know,
a lot skinnier or
emaciated looking.
>> You can say it, "scrawny."
>> Right, but--
that's not the case.
That's not what I'm
experiencing here.
Actually, I've gained
about 2 pounds of muscle
off of this diet.
>> It's a nice lean--
more integrity.
>> Definitely.
It's a lot safer, you know,
than eating the protein
from your chicken and so forth.
Not as bad on the arteries.
So you actually can be
really, really healthy
off of vegetables,
off of raw vegetables.
So it's extremely good.
And this is something
that I'm definitely
looking to keep up for
a long time to come.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You guys, it's your last day.
>> Yeah.
>> Woo!
>> Woohoo hoo hoo!
>> Baum da da baum!
Ooooo!
Oooo!
[INAUDIBLE]
>> We didn't go to sleep.
We were in here just cutting
up, you know, nicely.
>> This is the big 30.
And we're celebrating that
we made the day my dear.
>> [INAUDIBLE] 30
days of eating raw!
>> We're talking about
transition foods now.
Now that you don't
have to do 100% raw.
We wanted to first
introduce you to the things
that you can transition on
to, things that you can have.
We're going to be giving
you recipes to try
at home, including the ones
that you'll try, these three.
This is a standard
grandmother salad.
And it's just got
red onions, celery,
four different kinds of beans.
>> If you can't have it fresh,
frozen is going to be better
than canned.
>> Because we understand that
it is a hard thing to do.
Especially when you're
just thrown right into it.
And you either sink or
float, and all of you
have made it through.
>> Yay!
>> Woo!
Yay!
>> The answer to diabetes is
walking and sitting in this
room.
And here you are
celebrating this works.
The lab tests really
speak to that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Ah!
>> That's why I had to pump
it up twice, I was like,
am I seeing this right?
>> I've been wanting
to be 120 on top--
oh, for a good eight months.
>> Yeah.
>> I feel so good, I
don't want to get--
I don't want to get too
young, because I don't
want to start the menstruation.
I'm kind of glad that's gone.
>> I thought the only thing that
mattered was my insulin intake.
That's what I thought this
whole thing was about, you know?
So that's why I didn't
worry about chewing or--
But I'm starting to see
now that it's different.
And the alcohol is just not--
I'll never-- you
know, I'll always
be conscious about my eating
for the rest of my life,
and drinking.
I know what's good to eat now.
Which I had no idea before.
And I really--
I don't even deserve to
be here, and I never have.
Like, I don't deserve this.
You know, what you
guys have given me.
And I thank you out of the
goodness of everyone's heart.
It's been great.
And I thank you guys for
everything you've taught me.
For taking me down to 5 units of
insulin, which I never thought
would happen in my entire life.
>> The bottom line is, are we
willing to make that one little
decision to go from here to
here in our consciousness?
Then it allows the
healing to happen.
It's all within us to
allow that to happen.
It's no mystery.
There's no secret.
All you have to do is change
your heart, change your ways.
It's all there in
front of our noses.
And we've already
experienced it.
It's beautiful.
[APPLAUSE]
>> That deserves a
standing ovation.
Bravo!
All of you, everybody.
>> This is one month.
The transition has
been so dramatic.
I mean I can't believe the
changes that I've experienced.
Gabriel read the blood
report yesterday,
and I'm a normal human being.
And all my readings were normal.
Everything.
This, as far as I'm concerned,
was just a true miracle.
Who could ever have thought
about all this stuff
happening in a month,
just eating God's food?
You know, natural enzymatic
food, the natural enzymes.
God, I've missed
so much of my life.
You know, and I hope to
impress on my children
the right way to do this,
living here, you know,
and be healthy and be clear.
I want to see my
son get married.
I want to see him have children.
I want to know his children.
I want to be around for a while.
My daughter-- and I want
to see her son grow up.
Those are all the
wonderful things,
the real things in life.
And I don't want to miss it.
So God gave me another chance
here to live my life over
again.
>> Bye!
Love you, Bil!
>> You don't have to do this
for 30 days, 60 days, 90 days,
for your life to
be able to improve.
You just need to take
it a step at a time.
As they say, baby steps.
Take a little baby step, and
you'll start feeling better.
And you'll do more, and you'll
do more, and you'll do more.
>> In the beginning, just
eliminate all things white from
your diet.
Eliminate the sugar.
Eliminate the white flour.
If you can't
eliminate it totally,
cut back tremendously on
the dead meat products.
Begin to eliminate
that kind of thing.
And begin to add living food.
So I really came
here to lose weight.
So I lost a little weight, but
I gained more life for my kids,
for my husband.
And more knowledge.
I learned a lot about
myself, my addiction
to food, my love
affair with food.
And how I had to just
shift my whole mindset.
America stands before you.
[LAUGHING]
But I'm just taking it one step
at a time with how it works,
with me and my budget and
my family and priorities.
But this is pretty
big up here now.
It's like I am a priority now.
Where I wasn't before.
So the journey has been
overwhelmingly rewarding.
>> I have this conversation
with people all the time.
It's like, well, if I was sick,
or I found out I was dying
or something was wrong,
I would definitely
change the way I live.
Then why not change
the way you live now?
Then you won't be
sick and dying.
You know, you're waiting until
it's almost too late to make
a difference in your own life.
>> People have
their own struggles.
And some people struggle with
food really bad, you know?
Some people struggle
with alcohol really bad.
Like, everyone just has
their own struggles.
But it's all pretty
much the same.
And it's just nice learning
how to get along with people.
This month has been really
great for my body, you know?
I think my body's really
been healed a lot.
From what I see,
after this month,
I see this as a potential
cure for type 1.
>> If you feed people real food,
or as much real food as you
possibly can, you're going
to change the quality
of the health in this country.
I believe that more
than 50% of diseases
will go by the wayside.
>> Everything in my
body is working fine.
My pancreas is working.
It's giving me the
insulin I need.
Because I have not had insulin
since I left Sarasota, Florida.
My goal now is to stay as
close to raw as possible.
>> You ready?
>> No.
But I'm going to be ready.
I hate leaving this place.
I don't want to leave.
I have support here.
At home, I don't
have any support.
My grandchildren, their mom.
And she don't like cooking.
She's going to bring some
fast food in the house.
But I'm ready.
I'm ready for it.
I'm ready for the challenges
that I have set up in my head.
So I'm kind of excited about it.
But I'm really excited about
seeing how I can get this
into my community.
I don't see why the doctors
don't know about this.
Because I'm going to tell
mine when I get back.
>> Wherever you are right now,
with diabetes, with suffering,
with pain, with cancer, with
disease, with frustration,
with doubt, there is a way out.
You decide it.
You choose.
>> It's so weird how people are
so skeptical about raw food.
I talked to one of
my friends today.
I was like, you know,
I'm cured, right?
And I'm off my insulin.
Well, you better be
careful with that.
You know, you should see a
doctor when you get home.
I'm like-- I was
like, yeah, you would
say that because,
you know, you don't
understand what raw food is.
No matter what anybody else says
to me, I know what I'm feeling.
And I know what I felt before.
I know what it was like
getting up every hour
having to go to the bathroom.
I know what it was like
to start losing my vision.
I know what it was
like to lose 20 pounds
and have to take a three-hour
nap every time I eat.
I know what that was like.
I don't have that anymore.
And I don't need medication
to not have to feel that way.
That's amazing.
It may not be for everyone.
But for me, this works.
And from what I've
seen here, everyone
who really tried it and
put their effort into it,
it works for them too.
>> Well, what's happened to you?
What's happened to you--
let's see your weight.
Wow.
You've lost, uh--
25 pounds.
So you're not taking anything
for for your diabetes.
>> I'm not taking anything
for my high blood pressure,
nothing else.
And I feel good.
>> Discontinued your insulin.
Now, this diet that you
learned, where was it?
Out in Arizona?
>> It was out in Arizona.
>> Wow.
Well, I'm impressed.
>> There's going to be a
presentation on raw food here
in Sarasota.
I will find out where it's going
to be and call it into you.
>> OK, great.
>> Because I plan to be there.
So I'm going to see if I can
be a support person for those
who want to learn.
Because there's so many people
now all over the country--
>> Right.
>> --playing to this thing.
>> I mean, you can chase
them around with medicines,
and try and get it down.
You're just chasing
your tail though.
The fundamental thing
in treating diabetes
is what you put in your
mouth, what you've learned.
And, my God, you look
like a different person.
>> I feel like one.
>> You look great.
>> And I feel like one.
>> Give me a hug.
You're something else.
You really are.
>> Thank you.
>> How do we ship all
my patients to Arizona?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I got back to Baltimore,
I tried to share with everyone
the raw-food experience.
>> I didn't know that
everyone was gonna be here.
I wouldn't have gone raw.
>> Oh.
They can have a nice salad, too.
>> It surely is--
>> You want to to try some?
Want to try some granola?
I made granola.
And it was funny because
I recall the person--
they're not going to like that.
I was like, shh, don't say that.
Let them try it.
Don't influence them.
You know, let them try to
see if they like it or not.
It's good.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> That's all right.
You're going to
have all the energy.
You're going to be good to go.
>> No Mom.
>> It tastes good!
>> Does it taste good?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> I'll let you take
some home, all right?
>> OK.
>> I'll let you take some home.
And they actually liked it.
The kids like the
granola so far.
And at that point
I made raw lasagna.
I also has salad
and stuff like that.
Thank you, Lord, for the food
that you have given to us,
and allowed be prepared.
Please let this food be
nourishing to our bodies,
and allow the nutrients to be
assimilated and incorporated
into our body.
Thank you.
And in all things, God.
Amen.
>> Amen.
>> All right, let's try this.
See how it tastes.
>> It kind of
feels like lasagna.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> It tastes like a noodle.
>> Mm-hmm, it does.
It looks good.
>> That salad's real good.
>> A lot of the conditions we're
having now are because we moved
to this fast-food nation.
Before we would take
time to make food.
Now we don't do that.
Raw food requires that again.
You have to take the time to
put your energy, your love,
into making food, and then
sharing it with others.
But I'll tell you one thing.
It's a whole lot
less time involved
by making food than having to
spend four days in a hospital.
So I've officially been back
to Baltimore for a little
over 60 days.
I got blood work
drawn on Tuesday.
And I'm going to get
the results back.
The results were amazing.
Based off the lab results
I had before, I was type 1.
I'm not supposed to
be producing insulin.
This isn't supposed to happen.
But as you can see from the
results, I'm producing insulin.
I can go from being type
1, to not having diabetes.
That's incredible.
Incredible.
Diabetes is reversible.
We have the results to show it.
>> What we see in this one-month
experience is everybody went
off all their medications.
Cholesterol all went to normal.
Mind sharp, clear, happy.
What we're seeing
is they have walked
to the top of the mountain
of their human potential.
Their minds have come back.
Their bodies have come back.
Their joy has come back.
You now know you have a choice.
That's the beauty.
Diabetes is not
a death sentence.
Your chronic disease is
not a death sentence.
You can choose life
and turn this around
in a matter of weeks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]